Thousands of invisible anthrax spores
can be inhaled through the nose and mouth
in a single breath.
The pass through the nasal passages,
past the vocal chords,
and into the deepest recesses of the lung.
As the spores spread deeper into the lungs,
individual spores
attach to the lung's tissue.
A type of white blood cell,
a macrophage, one of the bodies protection units,
engulfs the intruding spore,
and attempts to consume it.
Some of the anthrax spores survive,
and are carried by the macrophage
to lymph glands in the central portion of the chest.
The rod-shaped bacillis
emerges from the spore
with a capsule that protects it from being eaten.
The bacilli multiply rapidly
within the macrophage,
and produce two kinds of toxins;
called lethal factor and edema factor.
Finally, overwhelmed by the number of bacilli within it,
the macrophage bursts,
releasing the anthrax bacilli and its toxins.
The bacilli destroy the lymph glands,
and spread through the blood
and throughout the body,
to all the organs.